Additional Functionalities

Error-Resistant Design
In case the user accidentally inputs an invalid input or due to a transmission error
an invalid input is received, the circuit will ensure that the system will stay in its
previous valid state till the error is rectified. We have implemented a One-Hot
Encoding/Decoding circuit to validate the input. The details have been described
in the ‘Design/Algorithm’
section.
Invalid LED
1. If there is an error in the system, invalid LED blinks at different frequencies
depending on the error location.
2. If the error is in the first 3 bits from the right (C2,C1,C0), the LED won’t blink
and will stay high till rectified.
18
3. If the error is in the next 3 bits (B1,B0,C3), the light will be ON for 1 cycle and
will be OFF for 2 cycles.
4. If the error is in the next 3 bits (A0,B3,B2), it’s ON for 1 cycle and OFF for 3
cycles.
5. If the error is in the last 3 bits (A3,A2,A1), ON for 1 cycle and OFF for 4 cycles.
6. Remains always OFF for valid inputs.
7. This acts as a preliminary error identifier and helps the engineer by enabling easy
and quick debugging in certain cases.


Debug Mode
In the case of a suspected error in multiple bit locations, the Debug mode will help
the engineer figure out the wrong bits received. When the Debug button is pressed
and held, the shift register will stop shifting and the data bits received can be read
using a display or probes. With known input and output, the problem can be
identified with less effort.
Party Mode
1. The party mode is enabled when the input is 924: 1001 0010 0100 (100 100 100
100).
2. The lights will flicker between four modes: 00,01,10,11 for Light 1 and Light 2
respectively, every clock pulse (4 Hz).
3. The circuit will remain in party mode till the input is changed, great for all-night
parties!
4. If lights are already ON, it will stay ON for 4 clock cycles and will start flickering
after that.
5. State of the fans remains the same when the party mode is enabled. It can be
changed by first disabling the party mode and then providing the appropriate
input.


Kill Switch
1. Turns off all the devices in the circuit when it is pressed for at least 1/4th of a
second.
2. Resets all the memory devices except the power usage counters.
3. We assume that the kill switch, when enabled, communicates with the wifi
transmitter which will send the signal to the source (cloud) to reset the states to
zero. This is done to ensure that the state of the system is up to date everywhere.
19
4. An important application: It can be used when the user is leaving home and wants
to turn off all the appliances at once.


Power Usage Counter
1. We are assuming that each fan consumes 1 Watt for every 16 clock cycles.
2. Each fan is attached to a counter, which counts the number of cycles the fan was
turned ON and will update it in a cloud-based database after every 16 cycles of
ON state.
3. Smart assistants can then warn the user if the power consumption reaches a higher
than expected value.
4. It can be used to compare the power consumption tally provided by the bill from
the electricity board.
